Step 1: Update the System 
You need to update the ubuntu current repository server by using the given command.
sudo apt-get update
Step 2: Install Prometheus 
You need to update the ubuntu repository and use the following command to install prometheus packages.
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get install prometheus prometheus-node-exporter prometheus-pushgateway prometheus-alertmanager -y
Here we are installing all the required package for the prometheus along with alertmanager, node-expoter and pushgateway.
Get the prometheus service status by using the given command.
sudo systemctl status prometheus
Step 3: UFW Rules
After installation of the packages, We need to open the required port by using the command.
sudo ufw status
sudo ufw allow 9090
Step 4: Accessing Web Panel
You need to open the browser with http://localhost:9090 or http://IP_Address:9090 
Verifying the node up or not just put the query up execute So then you will get the up and running  node details.
Step 5: Download Grafana
Lets configure Grafana with prometheus by using the given command.
cd /tmp
sudo wget https://dl.grafana.com/oss/release/grafana_5.4.3_amd64.deb
Step 6: Installing Dependencies 
After this you need to install some dependencies.
sudo apt-get install -y adduser libfontconfig
Step 7: Installing Grafana
sudo dpkg -i grafana_5.4.3_amd64.deb
Step 8: Controlling Service
by default grafana service you will get in stop state, You need to verify the grafana service and start it on boot by using the following command. 
Use this given command to get the grafana service.
sudo systemctl status grafana-server
To start garfana service on boot, Use the following command.
sudo systemctl enable grafana-server
To start the grafana service execute the given command.
sudo systemctl start grafana-server
Step 9: UFW Rules for Grafana
Once you get the service So then you need to open the port 3000 in UFW or your firewall.
sudo ufw status
sudo ufw allow 3000
Step 10: Setup Grafana GUI Mode
Once you get the service So then you need to open the port 3000 in UFW or your firewall.
http://localhost:3000 Or http://IP_address:3000
Here you need to use he default username and password to login and reset the password.
Username - admin
Password  - admin
After that you need to click on Add data source button after that you need to click on prometheus data source
Select Data source prometheus.
Put the prometheus source http://localhost:3000
 Step 11: Setup Grafana GUI Mode
Now you need to import the pre-define system metric dashboard by using the given id, Follow the given step.
Its time import predefine dashbard, click on Dashboard button after that you should get the import button click on it.
for basic system monitoring, I am using CPU Utilization Details (Cores) [ID: 10204] custom dashboard. Copy the dashboard ID from here.
When you click on load So then you need to select prometheus as a data source as well.
Now should get the pre-define grafana dashboard, Here you will the all the information about the basic system hardware utilization.

